All right.
So I promised that we were going to go learn how to download some web content.
But before we do that there's a general principle in Java that I want to teach you about and I think
it's best to kind of do it here and just sort of a one off situation that's not worth creating a whole
app over we're going to use this Browndown x y just like we've done before braue x y dot com.
And what we're going to do is we're going to see how we can use try and catch to work with some exceptions.
So I'm going to give you a really awesome example to see how that all works.
And then you'll see how that applies to web content.
In our next lecture.
So first to get started here just go ahead and hit the try button there.
That's going to get you started with the little hello world example here this gives us most importantly
our starting menu.
But let's go and get rid of this print line for now.
Now couple of challenge for you here the first one that I want you to do is I want you to create an
array that holds three integers.
Now don't create an array list.
I want you to create an array that holds three integers.
You don't have to say what those integers are going to be to but just create the array.
All right go ahead and hit pause.
Now.
All right so hopefully that went well for you.
The answer to this is used to end with the square brackets to specify that you're doing the array.
Let's get this very boring name of just array and we'll go ahead and say that this is going to be an
array of three items and then we'll set a semi-colon.
So then once we have this the next challenge that I have for you is I want you to be able Oh and excuse
me I forgot we need to have a new IF and if you ever want to check your code to make sure it's OK.
Just go ahead and hit this start button here and it'll tell you if you had any issues.
So with that the next challenge that I have for you is I want you to do a for loop where you then add
three numbers to this array and the number should be zero 1 to game.
So very simple straightforward you can do this.
Hit pause.
Now.
All right so hopefully that went well again.
We are creating a for loop and inside of this for loop.
And you got to I'm so used to Android studio of making my ending curly brackets for me.
I got to make sure that I add that they're going to have an event called I which is initially said equal
to zero.
And while I is less than three then we are going to say I.
Plus plus.
Just like that.
Then as far as code inside of here what we want to do is we're going to say OK array index of II is
going to be equal to whatever.
So you know the zero index we want that to be equal to zero and then the one index we want that to be
the one so on and so forth.
So after this to make sure that the array looks like and is what we were expecting we're going to go
ahead and print it out.
So we're going to do our system out that print line.
And then inside of here we've got to turn our array into a string so we're going to say capital array
with an s to string and then we're going to pass in our array.
Don't forget our semi-colon there.
And with that let's go ahead and hit start.
See what we get here.
So we've got to err on line 11.
Let's see.
Cannot find symbol variable arrays.
That's because we have to import it.
OK.
Thank you for alerting me about that.
OK so we've got import and then we're going to say Java.
You still do.
Hopefully this helps you realize how cool Android studio is right like if we had just done arrays of
the capital S and hit enter it would have automatically done this import for us.
We would have all sorts of auto complete stuff.
It's kind of good sometimes to go through the painful stuff to know OK this is what the good life is
all about.
And it looks like I'm still on.
I did until instead of you till.
OK.
One of these days.
And I call that Java.
Good gracious.
I got to work on my spelling here.
But eventually we do get 0 1 and 2.
OK.
So that's excellent.
Everything's working but now I need to introduce you to the concept of the try catch.
So the basic idea here is there are sometimes errors in your code right.
Something happens for example here if I make this for loop go through for four items.
Even though our arrays only three things wrong.
If I go ahead and run this code look what we get we get this exception.
And you know right now it doesn't look that bad but it's an Android app if you ever get an exception
and it's not handled properly.
Your entire app crashes the user has no idea what's happened.
They would have to reopen the app if they want to like that sort of worst case scenario for app is just
that everything crashes like this so you don't want to have uncaught exceptions inside of your code
in the way that you can handle this is using something called a try catch and basically the try catch
literally allows you to try out some code and if there's a problem with it.
You can catch that problem and then handle the response the response appropriately.
So for example with this for loop we could say try with an opening curly bracket and we'll put an end
in one there which then means all this code we need to tab forward and then we're going to put a catch
here.
And with this catch We're going to say capital exception just like that.
And then we're going to call it lower case.
That's typically what people do.
There's nothing special about either.
Like you could you know name that error if you wanted to or lower case exception.
But people usually just do lowercase E and just to see if this is working.
We're going to go ahead and do a print line here and we'll say something very simple like there was
a problem and we've got our all caps so that it's very dramatic.
So go ahead and run this and you'll see what's happened here is it ran through the for loop and when
it found the exception when you know it says oh you know there was too many things here.
We were able to successfully print out hey there was a problem we didn't crash the program or anything
and in fact it was still able to move forward and say hey I'm going to print out whatever's inside of
array and print it out.
0 1 2.
So it kind of kept moving forward which is really awesome.
And there's all sorts of great information here inside of E.
So for example if we didn't want to print out there was a problem if we want to you know print out whatever
is inside of the we can actually do that and you can see it says oh Java dot length array index out
of bounds exception.
So it's telling us oh ok you know you're trying to access something in the array that you know doesn't
exist.
And that's where your problem is.
And so we could you know run the code if we wanted to do that.
And also with these exceptions because there's lots of different types of exceptions you can actually
catch for a particular exception.
So if we go ahead and just copy the name of this one and go ahead and copy that and paste there we can
for the X for this one maybe say something just like out of bounds and then if we want to we could catch
just a more general.
All other exceptions just like this or say exception lower case.
And you know maybe on this one will do our system not out of print line and we'll do that one for E.
OK so let me go ahead and start this.
So you'll see it went to out-of-bounds and it didn't print out what was in this case so when you have
two catches for different exceptions if whatever one matches the exception exactly it's going to run
the code in those curly brackets and it won't run the others.
But sometimes you know you run some code and you're not sure what the exception is going to be.
That's why you can have this general exception here to say hey something happens let's you know do this
general thing.
So the reason I taught this to you is when you're downloading web content there can be all sorts of
issues that happen you don't get back the right information maybe the user's internet connection isn't
there or whatever.
There's all sorts of exceptions that can happen and you need to be able to handle that so that you know
the app just doesn't explode right like if an app crashed every time someone's user's the user's internet
wasn't working like how terrible would that be.
Maybe the user forgot that they were in airplane mode or you know their wife I went out for a second
you would want to give them something more helpful like oh you know your internet's not working.
Check your connection blah blah blah.
Something like that.
So hopefully enjoyed learning about that.
With that let's go ahead and move forward with learning how to download some web content.